README.md, before:

## JuliaBox

JuliaBox is hosted online at
[http://www.juliabox.org/](http://www.juliabox.org). Join our [Mailing
List](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/julia-box).

Our goal is to provide the best Julia experience we can. We want to
make it easy for Julia users to run Julia anywhere without too much
fuss. Use Julia through the browser, access lots of processors and
memory, suck in data from anywhere, and have it always accessible
through any device you use so long as it has a browser.

The only constraint is imagination (and server cost).

## Features

- Run [IJulia](https://github.com/JuliaLang/IJulia.jl) sessions
    - A bash session is also started in the container, which can be used to run the Julia REPL.
    - File transfer facility into a session's container.
    - File synchronization with Google Drive.
    - Clone Github repositories.
    - Login via Google authentication. Submit a PR for more auth methods!
- Expose Julia packages &amp; functions as REST APIs using [JuliaWebAPI](https://github.com/tanmaykm/JuliaWebAPI.jl)
    - Scale with requests.
- Sandboxed [Docker](http://www.docker.com) containers.
- Basic admin screen to delete old and inactive sessions.
- Auto cleanup of sessions and API servers based on inactivity.
- Ability to limit CPU, memory, and disk space for user sessions and APIs.

## Docs

- [Architecture](docs/Architecture.md)
- [Installation](docs/INSTALL.MD)

Commit message:

make HTTP/WebSocket applications accessible
Applications that communicate over HTTP or WebSockets can now
be invoked inside a JuliaBox session and accessed directly from
the browser.

TCP ports 8050-8052 from the container are proxied through a
user chosen alias over https://juliabox.org/jcw_<alias>/ (as websockets) or
as https://juliabox.org/jci_<alias>/ (as plain HTTP). The ports can be
opened and mapped to an alias from the JuliaBox settings tab.

JuliaBox plugins can also open ports transparently and provide a convenient
and seamless experience. Widely used applications may provide such plugins.

README.md, after:

## JuliaBox

JuliaBox is hosted online at
[http://www.juliabox.org/](http://www.juliabox.org). Join our [Mailing
List](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/julia-box).

Our goal is to provide the best Julia experience we can. We want to
make it easy for Julia users to run Julia anywhere without too much
fuss. Use Julia through the browser, access lots of processors and
memory, suck in data from anywhere, and have it always accessible
through any device you use so long as it has a browser.

The only constraint is imagination (and server cost).

## Features

- Run interactive sessions
    - Run [IJulia](https://github.com/JuliaLang/IJulia.jl) notebooks.
    - A bash session is also started in the container, which can be used to run the Julia REPL.
    - Run HTTP/WebSocket/[Escher](https://github.com/shashi/Escher.jl) applications in the container and access them over the browser.
    - File transfer facility into a session's container.
    - File synchronization with Google Drive.
    - Clone Github repositories.
    - Login via Google authentication. Submit a PR for more auth methods!
- Expose Julia packages &amp; functions as REST APIs using [JuliaWebAPI](https://github.com/tanmaykm/JuliaWebAPI.jl)
    - Scale with requests.
- Sandboxed [Docker](http://www.docker.com) containers.
- Basic admin screen to delete old and inactive sessions.
- Auto cleanup of sessions and API servers based on inactivity.
- Ability to limit CPU, memory, and disk space for user sessions and APIs.
- Extensible with plugins.

## Docs

- [Architecture](docs/Architecture.md)
- [Installation](docs/INSTALL.MD)
